The Joe Rogan.
Experience. If I was a conspiracy nut,
or if I was a country that was conspiring to take over the world,
this is not a bad way to do it. I don't think that's happening right now.
I wanna be real clear,
but it's kind of the same result that we're experiencing right now,
where everyone's being forced to down with, who knows what consequences,
but it's also the right thing to do. So we're all like, whoa, how do you,
you know,
it's another one of those things about being a person where the right thing to
do still feels crazy. Still feels like, all right, we're just gonna sit around.
Well, yeah, I guess that's what you have to do, you know?
And it's kind of in one way,
encouraging that so many people are willing to stay home and people aren't
rebelling. They're like, you. This is my country. I'm gonna go to work.
I'll take a chance. It's everybody's gonna get it anyway. you.
There's way less people doing that.
And when you consider that the government is controlling 320 million people,
you pretty crazy,
almost everyone's complying with staying home.
There's only a few essential businesses.
Yeah. We're gonna have to,
I think really have space suits to leave the house and work. God
<laugh> and they're gonna probably be like this,
this metal plastic thing that what could wash off really? Yeah. They're only.
Pad and dudes are gonna put socks in their space suits. It's gonna be a mess.
Are you worried, Jamie? Yeah. I'm,
I've never seen you this worried <laugh> because I've.
Uh, everything. You're sort of saying, like, I,
I look into the future and sort of see where we're headed and I don't see a,
I don't really see much out there cause I don't know where it is, but it,
it's not good because there's nothing there.
I don't see like going to the movies again.
Seems like that's probably close to out movies.
We're already dying anyway. Yeah. They might not survive this.
They've already opened up the ability to like put those right into your house
for 20 bucks. Perfect. Way better. Sweet.
So winter movie theaters gonna open again. All right. What's next? Yeah.
Concerts, sporting events. Yeah. I don't know.
That's just, those are all the fun things we used to do. So like.
It's also once everything's in place where they can treat
people effectively and they have the adequate number of ventilators,
then are we gonna go back to the way things were?
Or are we gonna have new standards in place? I don't know.
I don't know, man, that they look, they did an unprecedented thing.
They locked down the entire country to save people's lives.
Never happened before we're in new territory and you know,
it's dangerous when a moron like me is making sense.
And I'm when I'm one of the people who's talking about. Something like this,
give us a, your take on how we got here, because this is, uh,
it's been very strange, obviously, uh,
the president completely miscalculated what was gonna happen and the way he was
explaining it to the news,
he was kind of saying that it was just a few cases and they'll be gone.
And now obviously New York city shut down.
The entire country is separated from each other.
Everybody is isolating at home. Give us your take on how we got here.
Well, you know, the, the truth is, uh,
we knew this was coming or something like it. We had a heads up and, and,
and even a, even a heads up before last year,
because this is now our third major coronavirus disaster of
the 21st century. We had, uh,
what's called SARS severe acute respiratory syndrome in 2003,
that started in China and caused a terrible epidemic in Toronto.
It actually took the, uh, the rolling stones to do a concert,
to bring the economy back to Toronto in 2003.
And then it was mayor's coronavirus infection in, uh, 2012.
And this is the third one.
So we actually realized that coronaviruses were gonna become a new thing.
And we embarked on a big coronavirus vaccine program a decade ago. And,
um, and each time they've caused devastating hospital epidemics they've affected
healthcare workers. So, uh,
the point is this unfortunately has become a new normal for the globe is
terrible coronavirus, uh, epidemics. And, uh,
we saw this one coming up and at the end of 2019 in China. And,
uh, I knew we were in for 12 because that's what coronaviruses do.
So you knew that we were gonna be in trouble because there was no way they could
contain it and keep it in China. Well, the.
The difference with this one, uh, compared to the other two,
was this the other two SARS and mayors. Now we call this new one, SARS two.
So there were SARS one then mayors, then SARS.
So both SARS one and mirrors made you so sick and had such
a high case fatality rate that anybody who got it was almost immediately
hospitalized. And basically out of the community, the,
the difference with this one, ironically, is it is it's pretty lethal.
It's about five to 10 times more lethal than regular flu seasonal flu.
Uh, but also there's a big group of people who don't get very sick at all.
And so you have this sort of perfect mix where it's not the most
lethal infection we've ever seen.
It's not the most transmissible infection we've ever seen,
but it's high enough in both categories that it combines in this very toxic way.
So what you have is you have a group of people who are getting very sick or in
the intensive care unit, like older people,
those with diabetes and hypertension,
even a group of younger people who are getting it very sick.
And then a larger group who are only getting mildly sick,
who could still walk around the community and be out in about in stores and
restaurants and infecting everybody. And so this is what's caused the problem.
Uh, it's a,
it's a highly transmissible and there's a lo big group of people walking around,
spreading it and a smaller subset, but a big subset.
We're getting very sick and even dying in intensive care units. So that's,
what's playing out in New York city right now, for.
Instance, what, whatever is stopping people from, uh, funding, medical research.
I hope they open up the floodgate now. Yeah. Right. I hope they realize like,
Hey,
you need more of these guys and they need a lot more money and they be way ahead
of this.
Well, yeah, because this is one pandemic. There are a mult,
multiple different scenarios of how this happens again. Sure.
Well,
there was another guy that died recently on a bus that they identified as having
a completely different coronavirus in China,
but he got a virus that specifically hasn't jumped human to human.
It's only jumped from rats to humans.
And the way it jumps from rats to humans is by ingesting animal feces or animal
urine, or, you know, animal fluids. Right.
So this guy ate somehow or another, got some live bat fluid in his body,
um, and, and was dying on this bus. And they pulled the guy.
He tests positive for a totally different coronavirus. That's killing him.
What.
Do you think would happen? Like imagine some guy gets Corona and he's got it.
bad systems are shutting down. This is it he's gonna die.
And he wants to have sex again, but he doesn't wanna get anybody sick. Jesus.
Right. So he his dog. Oh my God.
And then like all the symptoms go away and he realizes like,
he's found the cure. And now he has this moral obligation. Like,
does he call the CDC and say, Hey,
I'm kind of embarrassed to tell you guys this, but I think I cracked it.
<laugh> and.
What if it's only his dog,
but if everybody has to come to his house and his dog,
we tried a bunch of different dogs.
There's there's no way to recreate this thing unless we Marty, Marty,
but I Marty. No, we're all gonna have to Marty.
<laugh> there's a train of people every day outside of Marty's.
House. You're trying to, trying to breed Marty, the puppies.
You're trying to do calculations on how many pumps it takes to cure you.
<laugh> you can't,
you can't let people pump too many times before Marty needs a break. Does.
It help? If he blows you put peanut butter in my deck. See what happens?
No, no, no.
Everybody's like the pounds are empty. Everybody's everybody's adopting.
Do dogs. Oh my God. Look,
biology is so weird, man. I wouldn't be that wouldn't even be that shocking.
Right? That's the way a disease gets cured. You have to an animal. Yeah.
How's not any weirder than some of the that that's real. So.
You have to realize that freedom is itself an export.
And one of the great dangers is,
is that China has been exporting the benefits of freedom them from the United
States into an authoritarian system so that they get the benefits of both
worlds. They get the benefits of our middle finger,
which I think is the secret of American innovation.
And they get the benefits of authoritarianism where they can do things that we
can't because they can order people to do the unconscionable mm-hmm
<affirmative>. So my feeling is I'm on team,
civil liberties and team civil liberties has to be
somewhat nationalistic, more militaristic, more command and control.
Like who would you take orders from? So in a lot of fields,
I'd orders from you. You're the big dog in this space, you know,
and to the extent that you wanted to coordinate something,
I would use my channel. I would subordinate to you.
And I would want sometimes people to subordinate to me if I have,
if I was taking a lead on something important when we have this fear of
leadership,
because we're all so individualistic that we never want to take an order,
like whenever I'm training into new assistant or something,
one of my always best practices is, uh, can I get you coffee?
You know, it's very important to show that the ability to ask
to serve somebody else, and the ability to lead are tied.
You have to be a follower to be a leader and a leader to be a follower.
You can't, you shouldn't be one or the other we need right now,
a more war. We need more of a war footing. We need a war president.
We need, we need war senators.
We need people of this mentality because the nap is coming to an end.
And I do think Nancy Pelosi needs to resign and build de Blasio needs to resign.
I think, think that this administration, uh, you know,
made some good moves and fumbled the ball.
And I believe that past administrations made some good moves and fumbled the
ball and the, the,
the imperative is to stop back propagating what you want to have,
what you want us to do,
like defeat a prisoner's dilemma and come up with the lie
that would cause us to act selfishly rationally.
Like if you tell me that a mask is actually more dangerous in my hands,
because it becomes germ filled, then the idea is like, oh, okay.
So I guess I won't use the mask. Well, yeah, because you lied to me.
And the idea is that that's what you're trying to do.
You're F you're trying to say what would need to be true to get you to do what I
want